README.md, before:

# Assault Lily Idle Game Project

<br/>

- Contents
    - [한국어](#어설트-릴리-방치형-게임)
        - [변경 사항](#변경-사항)
        - [플레이 가이드](#플레이-가이드)
        - [게임 화면 설명](#게임-화면-설명)
        - [게임 개발정보](#게임-개발정보)
        - [라이선스](#라이선스)
    - [English](#Assault-Lily-Idle-Game)
        - [Change Log](#Change-Log)
        - [Play Guide](#Play-Guide)
        - [Manual of the Game Screens](#Manual-of-the-Game-Screens)
        - [Dev Info](#Dev-Info)
        - [License](#License)
    - [日本語](#アサルトリリィ放置系ゲーム)
        - [アップデート](#アップデート)
        - [プレイガイド](#プレイガイド)
        - [ゲーム画面の説明](#ゲーム画面の説明)
        - [ゲーム開発情報](#ゲーム開発情報)
        - [ライセンス](#ライセンス)

<br/>
<br/>
<br/>

# 어설트 릴리 방치형 게임

이 프로젝트는 일본에서 시작된 미디어믹스 프로젝트 어설트 릴리의 세계관을 기반으로 한 2차 창작 비공식 웹게임 입니다.
  
인류의 생존을 위협하는 거대 생명체 휴지와의 전투로 바쁜 나날을 보내는 릴리들. 전장에서 지친 심신을 달래기 위해 그녀들은 자신만의 힐링 플레이스를 방문합니다. 2D 픽셀 아트로 구현된 그 오아시스에서 여러분도 릴리와 함께 잠시 쉬어보는 것은 어떨까요?

- [휴식하러 가기!](https://mintcc342g.github.io/assault-lily-idle-game/)

<br/>

## 변경 사항

- 모바일 기기를 위한 반응형 웹 적용
- 성능 개선

<br/>

## 플레이 가이드

- 이 게임은 방치형 스타일로, 기본적으로 캐릭터의 조작은 불가능합니다.

<br/>

### 캐릭터

- 휴식 중인 릴리는 가끔 이런저런 생각을 하거나, 학생수첩에 메모된 내용을 상기하곤 합니다.
- 선택 가능 릴리 목록
    - 키시모토 루치아 라이무

<br/>

### 학생수첩

- 간단한 메모를 작성할 수 있습니다.
    - 최대 27자까지 입력 가능한 칸이 8개 제공됩니다.
- 입력된 데이터는 저장되지 않으므로, 이하의 행동을 취할 경우 데이터가 사라집니다.
    - 메인화면이나 캐릭터화면으로 돌아가기
    - 웹 페이지를 벗어나기
    - 브라우저 끄기

<br/>

## 게임 화면 설명

### 메인 화면

- 언어 선택 후 'Start' 버튼을 클릭하면 캐릭터 선택 화면으로 이동합니다.
    - 디폴트 언어는 한국어

<br/>

### 캐릭터 선택화면

- 릴리와 릴리가 소속한 가든의 학생수첩이 화면에 나타납니다.
- 화면의 좌우 하얀색 화살표를 클릭하여 릴리의 변경이 가능합니다.
- 릴리를 선택한 후 'Play' 버튼을 누르면 게임이 시작됩니다.

<br/>

### 플레이 화면

- 오른쪽 상단의 학생수첩 아이콘을 클릭하면 메뉴가 열립니다.
- 현재 사용 가능한 메뉴 기능은 다음과 같습니다.
    - 학생 수첩 열기
    - 캐릭터 선택화면으로 돌아가기
    - 메인화면으로 돌아가기
    - 메뉴 닫기

<br/>

## 게임 개발정보

- 이 프로젝트는 다음의 라이브러리를 이용하여 구현되었습니다.
    - React
    - Phaser 3 (게임 엔진)
    - Grid Engine (모션 및 애니메이션)
- 이 프로젝트의 일부 이미지는 다음의 원본 이미지를 수정한 것입니다.
    - [핸드북 출처](https://opengameart.org/content/open-book-0)
    - [일부 배경 출처](https://opengameart.org/content/zelda-like-tilesets-and-sprites)
- 이 프로젝트의 캐릭터 이미지는 일본 부시로드사의 어설트 릴리 굿즈로부터 오마주 한 것입니다.
- 주의사항
    - 이 프로젝트의 개발자는 게임 개발자도 아니며, 이 프로젝트를 시작하며 js를 독학한 js 뉴비입니다.
    - 프로젝트 구조 및 코드 스타일 등이 일반적인 js 개발이나 게임 개발과 매우 상이할 가능성이 높으므로, 참고하지 않는 것을 권유드립니다. (코드리뷰 절찬 환영중!)

<br/>

## 라이선스

- 이 프로젝트는 2차 창작물이기 때문에, 어설트 릴리 프로젝트와 관련된 이미지 파일에 대해 상업적 이용을 허용하지 않습니다.
    - 예를 들어, 각 가든의 심볼 이미지, 캐릭터 이미지 등이 포함됩니다.

<br/>
<br/>
<br/>

# Assault Lily Idle Game
This project is a fan-made(unofficial) web game based on the concept of the Assault Lily project which is Japanese mixed-media franchise.  

Lilies have very busy days to fight with Huge, massive beasts that are the primary threat to humanity's survival. Lilies visit their favorite place to take a break. How about relaxing with them in the oasis to be made with pixel art?

- [Let's take a break!](https://mintcc342g.github.io/assault-lily-idle-game/)

<br/>

## Change Log

- apply responsive web for mobile browsers
- improve performance

<br/>

## Play Guide

- This is a idle game. That means you cannot control the character.

<br/>

### Characters

- The Lily who is relaxing think to herself or remind some memos written on the student's hand book.
- Playerble Lily List
    - Raimu Ruchia Kishimoto

<br/>

### The Student's Hand Book

- It is a simple note.
    - There are 8 input boxes. You can write texts(maximum characters are 42) on it.
- There is no server to store data. So you will lose your data that you wrote on it if you do following:
    - Going back to the main screen or the character selection screen.
    - Refreshing or leaving the page.
    - Closing the browser.

<br/>

## Manual of the Game Screens

<br/>

### Main Screen

- Select the language that you want.
- If you press the 'Start' button, you can see Character Select Screen to play the game.

<br/>

### Character Selection Screen

- There will be a Lily and a hand book of the Lily's garden.
- You can choose a Lily to click white arrow buttons which is on left and right side of the screen.
- Select a Lily, then press the 'Play' button to start the game.

<br/>

### Playing Screen

- There is a Menu button on the top right corner.
- Current available menu fetures
    - Open the hand book
    - Go back to Character Selection Screen
    - Go back to Main Screen
    - Close the menu

<br/>

## Dev Info

- Used Libraries
    - React
    - Phaser 3
    - Grid Engine
- Some images used in this project are modified from the origin images.
    - Thanks to Min, for [the hand book](https://opengameart.org/content/open-book-0)
    - Thanks to ArMM1998, for [some background images](https://opengameart.org/content/zelda-like-tilesets-and-sprites)
- Character images is painted in homage to Bushroad company's goods.
- CAUTION
    - I'm neither a game developer or a js professionalist. I'm a real Newbie of js.
    - I can't recommend to reference this project for your js projects.
    - (Welcome Code Reviews for this project!)

<br/>

## License

- It is forbidden to use images commercially related with the Assault Lily project for this project is a unofficial fan-made game.
    - For example : each garden' symbols, character images, and so on.

<br/>
<br/>
<br/>

# アサルトリリィ放置系ゲーム
このプロジェクトはメディアミックスプロジェクト「アサルトリリィ」の世界観を元にした2次創作（非公式）のウェブゲームです。  

巨大生命体「ヒュージ」との戦いで忙しい日々を送るリリィたち。戦場で疲れた心身を癒すため、自分が好きな場所に訪れます。2Dピックセルアートで描かれたそのオアシスでリリィと一緒にちょっとだけ休んでみませんか？

- [休憩しに行く](https://mintcc342g.github.io/assault-lily-idle-game/)

<br/>

## アップデート

- レスポンシブウェブデザインの適用
- パフォーマンス改善

<br/>

## プレイガイド

- このゲームは放置系なので、基本的にキャラクターの操作はできません。

<br/>

### キャラクター

- 休憩中のリリィは時々何かを考えたり、学生手帳に書かれているメモを思い出したりします。
- 現在選択可能なリリィ
    - 岸本・ルチア・来夢

<br/>

### 生徒手帳

- メモが作成出来ます。
    - 最大２７文字まで入力可能な８つの欄が提供されます.
- ゲームのデータを保存するサーバーがないため、生徒手帳に入力された内容は以下の行動を取ると無くなりますのご注意ください。
    - タイトル画面やキャラクター選択画面にもどる。
    - ウェブページのリフレッシュや移動
    - ブラウザを消す。

<br/>

## ゲーム画面の説明

### タイトル画面

- 言語を選択した後「Start」ボタンを押すとキャラクター画面に移ります。
    - デフォルト言語が韓国語なので、「ｊｐ」ボタンを押してからゲームを始めてください。

<br/>

### キャラクター選択画面

- キャラクターとキャラクターが所属したガーデンの生徒手帳が画面に出ます。
- キャラクター画面の右左にある白い矢印ボタンを押すとキャラクターの変更が可能です。
- キャラクターを選択した後「Play」を押すとゲームが始まります。

<br/>

### ゲーム画面

- 右上の生徒手帳アイコンを押すとメニューが開かれます。
- 現在使用可能な機能はこちらになります。
    - 生徒手帳を開く。
    - キャラクター選択画面にもどる。
    - タイトル画面にものる。
    - メニューを閉じる。

<br/>

## ゲーム開発情報

- このプロジェクトは以下のライブラリーを利用して作られています。
    - React
    - Phaser 3 (ゲームエンジン)
    - Grid Engine (モーションとアニメーション)
- このゲームの一部画像は以下の画像を修正して使ったものです。
    - [生徒手帳の中身の方](https://opengameart.org/content/open-book-0)
    - [一部背景画像](https://opengameart.org/content/zelda-like-tilesets-and-sprites)
- キャラクター画像はブシロード社のアサルトリリィグッズをオマージュしたものです。
- 注意事項
    - このプロジェクトの開発者はゲーム開発者でもないし、この個人プロジェクトを始めてからｊｓを独学したｊｓの完全初心者です。
    - プロジェクトスト構造やコードスタイルが一般的なｊｓの開発やゲーム開発と異なる可能性が凄く高いので、あまり参考にしないことをお勧めします。(コートレヴュー絶賛歓迎中！)

<br/>

## ライセンス

- このゲームは非公式２次創作なので、ゲームの中で使用されているアサルトリリィプロジェクト関連の画像ファイルは商業的利用を禁じています。
    - 例：ガーデンのシンボルやキャラクター画像など。

Commit message:

edit readme for to-do list event

README.md, after:

# Assault Lily Idle Game Project

<br/>

- Contents
    - [한국어](#어설트-릴리-방치형-게임)
        - [변경 사항](#변경-사항)
        - [플레이 가이드](#플레이-가이드)
        - [게임 화면 설명](#게임-화면-설명)
        - [게임 개발정보](#게임-개발정보)
        - [라이선스](#라이선스)
    - [English](#Assault-Lily-Idle-Game)
        - [Change Log](#Change-Log)
        - [Play Guide](#Play-Guide)
        - [Manual of the Game Screens](#Manual-of-the-Game-Screens)
        - [Dev Info](#Dev-Info)
        - [License](#License)
    - [日本語](#アサルトリリィ放置系ゲーム)
        - [アップデート](#アップデート)
        - [プレイガイド](#プレイガイド)
        - [ゲーム画面の説明](#ゲーム画面の説明)
        - [ゲーム開発情報](#ゲーム開発情報)
        - [ライセンス](#ライセンス)

<br/>
<br/>
<br/>

# 어설트 릴리 방치형 게임

이 프로젝트는 일본에서 시작된 미디어믹스 프로젝트 어설트 릴리의 세계관을 기반으로 한 2차 창작 비공식 웹게임 입니다.
  
인류의 생존을 위협하는 거대 생명체 휴지와의 전투로 바쁜 나날을 보내는 릴리들. 전장에서 지친 심신을 달래기 위해 그녀들은 자신만의 힐링 플레이스를 방문합니다. 2D 픽셀 아트로 구현된 그 오아시스에서 여러분도 릴리와 함께 잠시 쉬어보는 것은 어떨까요?

- [휴식하러 가기!](https://mintcc342g.github.io/assault-lily-idle-game/)

<br/>

## 변경 사항

- 2022.02.02
    - 학생수첩 이벤트 추가
    - 메인화면이나 캐릭터 화면으로 이동해도 학생수첩의 내용이 유지되도록 변경
- 2022.02.01
    - 모바일 기기를 위한 반응형 웹 적용
    - 성능개선

<br/>

## 플레이 가이드

- 이 게임은 방치형 스타일로, 기본적으로 캐릭터의 조작은 불가능합니다.

<br/>

### 캐릭터

- 휴식 중인 릴리는 가끔 이런저런 생각을 하거나, 학생수첩에 메모된 내용을 상기하곤 합니다.
- 선택 가능 릴리 목록
    - 키시모토 루치아 라이무

<br/>

### 학생수첩

- 간단한 메모를 작성할 수 있습니다.
    - 최대 27자까지 입력 가능한 칸이 8개 제공됩니다.
- 입력된 데이터는 저장되지 않으므로, 이하의 행동을 취할 경우 데이터가 사라집니다.
    - 웹 페이지를 벗어나기
    - 브라우저 끄기

<br/>

## 게임 화면 설명

### 메인 화면

- 언어 선택 후 'Start' 버튼을 클릭하면 캐릭터 선택 화면으로 이동합니다.
    - 디폴트 언어는 한국어

<br/>

### 캐릭터 선택화면

- 릴리와 릴리가 소속한 가든의 학생수첩이 화면에 나타납니다.
- 화면의 좌우 하얀색 화살표를 클릭하여 릴리의 변경이 가능합니다.
- 릴리를 선택한 후 'Play' 버튼을 누르면 게임이 시작됩니다.

<br/>

### 플레이 화면

- 오른쪽 상단의 학생수첩 아이콘을 클릭하면 메뉴가 열립니다.
- 현재 사용 가능한 메뉴 기능은 다음과 같습니다.
    - 학생 수첩 열기
    - 캐릭터 선택화면으로 돌아가기
    - 메인화면으로 돌아가기
    - 메뉴 닫기

<br/>

## 게임 개발정보

- 이 프로젝트는 다음의 라이브러리를 이용하여 구현되었습니다.
    - React
    - Phaser 3 (게임 엔진)
    - Grid Engine (모션 및 애니메이션)
- 이 프로젝트의 일부 이미지는 다음의 원본 이미지를 수정한 것입니다.
    - [핸드북 출처](https://opengameart.org/content/open-book-0)
    - [일부 배경 출처](https://opengameart.org/content/zelda-like-tilesets-and-sprites)
- 이 프로젝트의 캐릭터 이미지는 일본 부시로드사의 어설트 릴리 굿즈로부터 오마주 한 것입니다.
- 주의사항
    - 이 프로젝트의 개발자는 게임 개발자도 아니며, 이 프로젝트를 시작하며 js를 독학한 js 뉴비입니다.
    - 프로젝트 구조 및 코드 스타일 등이 일반적인 js 개발이나 게임 개발과 매우 상이할 가능성이 높으므로, 참고하지 않는 것을 권유드립니다. (코드리뷰 절찬 환영중!)

<br/>

## 라이선스

- 이 프로젝트는 2차 창작물이기 때문에, 어설트 릴리 프로젝트와 관련된 이미지 파일에 대해 상업적 이용을 허용하지 않습니다.
    - 예를 들어, 각 가든의 심볼 이미지, 캐릭터 이미지 등이 포함됩니다.

<br/>
<br/>
<br/>

# Assault Lily Idle Game
This project is a fan-made(unofficial) web game based on the concept of the Assault Lily project which is Japanese mixed-media franchise.  

Lilies have very busy days to fight with Huge, massive beasts that are the primary threat to humanity's survival. Lilies visit their favorite place to take a break. How about relaxing with them in the oasis to be made with pixel art?

- [Let's take a break!](https://mintcc342g.github.io/assault-lily-idle-game/)

<br/>

## Change Log

- 02.02.2022
    - add the student's hand book Event
    - apply the hand book's memos to be not deleted when the user go to the Main screen or the Character screen
- 02.01.2022
    - apply responsive web for mobile browsers
    - improve performance

<br/>

## Play Guide

- This is a idle game. That means you cannot control the character.

<br/>

### Characters

- The Lily who is relaxing think to herself or remind some memos written on the student's hand book.
- Playerble Lily List
    - Raimu Ruchia Kishimoto

<br/>

### The Student's Hand Book

- It is a simple note.
    - There are 8 input boxes. You can write texts(maximum characters are 42) on it.
- There is no server to store data. So you will lose your data that you wrote on it if you do following:
    - Going back to the main screen or the character selection screen.
    - Refreshing or leaving the page.
    - Closing the browser.

<br/>

## Manual of the Game Screens

<br/>

### Main Screen

- Select the language that you want.
- If you press the 'Start' button, you can see Character Select Screen to play the game.

<br/>

### Character Selection Screen

- There will be a Lily and a hand book of the Lily's garden.
- You can choose a Lily to click white arrow buttons which is on left and right side of the screen.
- Select a Lily, then press the 'Play' button to start the game.

<br/>

### Playing Screen

- There is a Menu button on the top right corner.
- Current available menu fetures
    - Open the hand book
    - Go back to Character Selection Screen
    - Go back to Main Screen
    - Close the menu

<br/>

## Dev Info

- Used Libraries
    - React
    - Phaser 3
    - Grid Engine
- Some images used in this project are modified from the origin images.
    - Thanks to Min, for [the hand book](https://opengameart.org/content/open-book-0)
    - Thanks to ArMM1998, for [some background images](https://opengameart.org/content/zelda-like-tilesets-and-sprites)
- Character images is painted in homage to Bushroad company's goods.
- CAUTION
    - I'm neither a game developer or a js professionalist. I'm a real Newbie of js.
    - I can't recommend to reference this project for your js projects.
    - (Welcome Code Reviews for this project!)

<br/>

## License

- It is forbidden to use images commercially related with the Assault Lily project for this project is a unofficial fan-made game.
    - For example : each garden' symbols, character images, and so on.

<br/>
<br/>
<br/>

# アサルトリリィ放置系ゲーム
このプロジェクトはメディアミックスプロジェクト「アサルトリリィ」の世界観を元にした2次創作（非公式）のウェブゲームです。  

巨大生命体「ヒュージ」との戦いで忙しい日々を送るリリィたち。戦場で疲れた心身を癒すため、自分が好きな場所に訪れます。2Dピックセルアートで描かれたそのオアシスでリリィと一緒にちょっとだけ休んでみませんか？

- [休憩しに行く](https://mintcc342g.github.io/assault-lily-idle-game/)

<br/>

## アップデート

- 2022.02.02
    - 生徒手帳イベントの追加
    - タイトル画面やキャラクター選択画面へ移動しても生徒手帳の内容が無くならないように変更
- 2022.02.01
    - レスポンシブウェブデザインの適用
    - パフォーマンス改善

<br/>

## プレイガイド

- このゲームは放置系なので、基本的にキャラクターの操作はできません。

<br/>

### キャラクター

- 休憩中のリリィは時々何かを考えたり、学生手帳に書かれているメモを思い出したりします。
- 現在選択可能なリリィ
    - 岸本・ルチア・来夢

<br/>

### 生徒手帳

- メモが作成出来ます。
    - 最大２７文字まで入力可能な８つの欄が提供されます.
- ゲームのデータを保存するサーバーがないため、生徒手帳に入力された内容は以下の行動を取ると無くなりますのご注意ください。
    - タイトル画面やキャラクター選択画面にもどる。
    - ウェブページのリフレッシュや移動
    - ブラウザを消す。

<br/>

## ゲーム画面の説明

### タイトル画面

- 言語を選択した後「Start」ボタンを押すとキャラクター画面に移ります。
    - デフォルト言語が韓国語なので、「ｊｐ」ボタンを押してからゲームを始めてください。

<br/>

### キャラクター選択画面

- キャラクターとキャラクターが所属したガーデンの生徒手帳が画面に出ます。
- キャラクター画面の右左にある白い矢印ボタンを押すとキャラクターの変更が可能です。
- キャラクターを選択した後「Play」を押すとゲームが始まります。

<br/>

### ゲーム画面

- 右上の生徒手帳アイコンを押すとメニューが開かれます。
- 現在使用可能な機能はこちらになります。
    - 生徒手帳を開く。
    - キャラクター選択画面にもどる。
    - タイトル画面にものる。
    - メニューを閉じる。

<br/>

## ゲーム開発情報

- このプロジェクトは以下のライブラリーを利用して作られています。
    - React
    - Phaser 3 (ゲームエンジン)
    - Grid Engine (モーションとアニメーション)
- このゲームの一部画像は以下の画像を修正して使ったものです。
    - [生徒手帳の中身の方](https://opengameart.org/content/open-book-0)
    - [一部背景画像](https://opengameart.org/content/zelda-like-tilesets-and-sprites)
- キャラクター画像はブシロード社のアサルトリリィグッズをオマージュしたものです。
- 注意事項
    - このプロジェクトの開発者はゲーム開発者でもないし、この個人プロジェクトを始めてからｊｓを独学したｊｓの完全初心者です。
    - プロジェクトスト構造やコードスタイルが一般的なｊｓの開発やゲーム開発と異なる可能性が凄く高いので、あまり参考にしないことをお勧めします。(コートレヴュー絶賛歓迎中！)

<br/>

## ライセンス

- このゲームは非公式２次創作なので、ゲームの中で使用されているアサルトリリィプロジェクト関連の画像ファイルは商業的利用を禁じています。
    - 例：ガーデンのシンボルやキャラクター画像など。
